
The handle turns but the door doesn’t open. Locked.

I call out again. ‘Marvin! Open the door, sweetheart!’

Still nothing.

Luckily I have my little clutch bag with me, containing lipstick, compact, a couple of dollars, and a set of lock picks. Passers-by are concerned only with reaching dry land again and pay no attention as I fumble at the keyhole, waiting for the tumblers to click. A bare minute later and I’m inside.

Uh-oh.

There’s a guy lying on the bunk. White, five ten, skinny. And dead.

I drop the lock picks back in my bag and snap it shut; I need to keep calm here, no point in advertising what could be construed as criminal intent. Then I cross to the bunk and examine the body.

We’re not talking subtle here. There’s a knife sticking out of his chest and the poor guy’s shirt is stiff with blood. But I’ve got a job to do, even if the circumstances aren’t ideal. Even though the logical conclusion is that Mr Motson’s been done away with for the sake of the goods he was carrying, it’s not cut and dried. So I start to search the place – under the bunk, in his suitcase (even the lining), jacket and trouser pockets, between the bed and mattress. And yeah, it’s not a completely clean job. So perhaps it’s understandable that when the steward comes in and sees me literally red handed, he yells the place down, but it’s also understandable that at that point I cease to find him cute.

Few minutes later, there I am with the steward and the purser, and another steward’s gone off to grab the almighty captain himself. I’m wondering whether to stick with the ‘fiancé’ angle and pretend I’d lost my head while overcome with grief, but much as I love playing a role, the truth might be best here. Or as much of it as I care to tell, anyway.

So, as the steward’s gabbling away that he’s caught a murderer in the act, I pull a card out of my purse and let them know I’m here on business.

They take a bit of convincing – it’s not just Wallace’s goons that think you can’t be both a girl and a gumshoe – and the steward’s still inclined to think he caught me in the act, until I patiently explain that he’s actually my alibi: he’d seen me arrive and Marvin here had been dead for maybe 30 minutes, maybe 60 judging by the stiffened shirt and the sticky blood pools, not to mention I had no way of concealing a knife on me – it’s too big for my purse, and would have shown under my clothes (and he’d known that from the start too, for sure). By the time the captain arrives, I’m the one doing the questioning. I want to know about anyone who’s been in this section in the last hour, and luckily for me, the steward had been paying close attention in the hopes of getting those sweet, sweet gratuities. By the time I left I’d got a list and I planned to do a Santa – checking each and every name to find out if they were naughty or nice. That is, if I could persuade Horace P. Wallace to keep me on the payroll.

I decline their kind offer of hospitality until the cops get there, and demonstrate in a few moves just why they don’t want to try and force me. They’ve got my card, anyways, and I ain’t got no plans to skip town. Then instead of sneaking unnoticed off the boat, I walk boldly down the gangway, cool as a cucumber. Wallace is still at the bottom, waiting for the man who’s never gonna come, and he looks furious as I approach him, yelling that I’m not sticking to the plan.

I explain, and it don’t calm him down any. Guy gets so red in the face I’m wondering if he’ll suddenly burst and spray the place with angry blood. ‘Where is it?’ he shouts. ‘Tell me you got it!’

I shrug. ‘I didn’t find anything. I got some names, though … ’

But he’s stopped listening, and his gaze is set firmly in the middle distance, his mind somewhere with the waves far out at sea. Jerry and Spats take an arm each and begin to lead him off, but I’m not going to let my meal ticket get away that easily.

‘Hey!’ I yell, grabbing at his jacket. ‘What’s the deal? What was in the package?’

Wallace turns back to me. ‘The Eye,’ he says.

I’m not squeamish – heck, in my line of work feelings get turned in at the door and you don’t always bother to collect them on the way out – but I’m hoping he doesn’t mean a real eyeball. Whatever, it sure weren’t in the cabin back there. Two eyes only, both staring sightlessly at the ceiling. I must have looked a bit curious, though, because he keeps going.

‘The Eye of Horus,’ he says. ‘It’s a ruby. Size of a pigeon’s egg.’

I’ve never measured a pigeon’s egg. Heck, I’ve never seen a pigeon’s egg. But I’m guessing the idea he’s trying to get across is that this stone is a big deal.

‘I’m sorry,’ I say. ‘You splash a lot of cash on it?’

‘Cash? What does that matter? That gem is priceless.’

‘Oh damn,’ I say, trying to sound concerned that the millionaire guy has lost his pretty bauble, as I’m still hoping some of those millions will trickle down to me.

‘Yeah,’ he says. ‘Priceless – and irreplaceable. That ruby? It belonged to Queen Cleopatra herself.’





CHAPTER THREE


STORMCAGE, AD 5147





I didn’t read a lot of books, growing up. I was raised by Madame Kovarian and the Silence to become a fearsome weapon, and fearsome weapons don’t tend to get bedtime stories. But I soon learned that words had power, that words could be arranged in more combinations than there were stars in the sky, made into patterns that created whole worlds inside the minds of those who consumed them.

But even knowing this, I had no all-consuming desire to commit words to paper. I’m an action gal, not a pen-pusher. I wrote my first book just so all of time and space wouldn’t get ripped apart – the book already existed, you see, so not to write it would be a paradox. Melody Malone: Private Detective in Old New York Town was me telling the story of events I’d lived through – the time when the Doctor lost my mother and father for ever. The decision to give myself a hardboiled alter ego was therefore dreamed up somewhere within the paradox, both made by me and not made by me simultaneously. I liked it, though. I liked Melody Malone. She had her flaws, of course, but then don’t we all?

The book got published, because it had to be. Strange to tell, people liked it. I’d not even considered that people other than the Doctor would read it – it had been written for him alone. My publishers wanted more. I gave them The Angel’s Kiss, set before the previous book. I thought that would round it off. Melody’s story already had an end, so here was the beginning.

Alas no! It seemed the people of the late 1930s were rather taken with the idea of a female PI. Little housewives in Scarsdale and Larchmont, dreaming of being the kind of dame with ice in her heart, a kiss on her lips, and a .45 pointing right at ya, couldn’t get enough of her.

Money. It’s not something I’ve had to worry about very much. But my parents, stuck in the 1930s, needed some. Yes, I could have popped across to the Tower of London and grabbed the Crown Jewels for them, or I could have zapped over to Voga and picked up a ton or two of gold (don’t tell anyone, but that’s how I paid for my own pad in NY; spots in 30 Rockefeller Plaza – formerly the RCA Building – don’t come cheap), but they were set on it being ‘legitimate’. It was part of fitting in, accepting that this was their life now. The royalties from my first two books had been enough to set them up in a sweet garden flat, near enough for us to visit, not so near that we’d trip over each other, but they still needed to put food on the table.

My mother, my lovely Amy, said that she rather liked the idea of writing books herself. She’d experienced so many worlds, she said, maybe that was a way she could share them with others who weren’t so lucky. It pleased me, hearing her say that word – ‘lucky’. She lost a lot, travelling with the Doctor, and at the end there she was, trapped in old New York for ever. That she could use that word, think of the things she’d gained rather than the things she’d lost, made me think she and Dad would be OK. But she wasn’t in a place yet where she could carve out a new identity as an author. So when I was offered a considerable sum – a pile of cabbage, as Melody might put it – for another Melody Malone book, I decided to suck it up to help out Mum and Dad. I could pass the baton on to my mother later, all being well, but, for now, Melody was in my hands.

But goodness, writing is hard. No, that’s not quite it – being allowed to write is hard. No one lets you alone! You’re always there, typing away, easily get-at-able. People popping in for a cuppa, because ‘you’re not doing anything, are you?’ People thinking you’re the detective, and wanting you to find their lost dogs or lost diamonds. Invitations to appear on radio programmes, or give speeches to the women’s movement about women having careers. It all adds up, and by the end of a week somehow you’ve only written six words and two of them are ‘Chapter One’.

The weeks went on, and so did the interruptions. I was close to tearing my hair out. I’d started to think longingly of my cell back in Stormcage, where you could go days without seeing another human being apart from the guard who delivered your nutrition pill. Certainly no one knocked on your cell door with a dish of oatmeal cookies and invited themselves in for coffee. And the idea slowly formed. I needed that peace and quiet. I must have it!

There was no real obstacle. I had no cat who had to be fed while I was away and, while I spoke to my parents fairly often, I didn’t plan to be gone for long – as long as my Vortex Manipulator didn’t go kaput, I could return to somewhen quite close to the time I left, give or take a few hours. (The timelines around New York are extremely tangled; you can only sneak in using something small like a Vortex Manipulator and it has to squeeze you through the gaps like toothpaste. You might arrive a bit late, but at least you’re minty fresh.)

I did, however, need to make sure I arrived in Stormcage at a time when I wasn’t already in residence in my cell – two of me is a little too much of a good thing. Although I can think of a few ways in which it could be fun …

And that is how I came to break in to the crème de la crème of maximum-security prisons in my desperate quest for peace and quiet.

Spoiler: the peace and quiet didn’t last …





CHAPTER FOUR


NEW YORK, AD 1939


Cleopatra? Egyptian dame, died a long time ago. Yeah, I guess I can see why this jewel would be hot stuff. Straightaway I get stuck in to ’tec mode. Gotta make myself indispensable here. I wanted to learn more about this ruby, wanted even more to not have to give back the 50 dollars, especially as I’d eaten my way through the first 50 cents already, and had earmarked a fair chunk of the rest under the heading ‘rent’.

I lay a hand on his arm. ‘Look, the cops’ll be here any minute, and they’ll want to run the show. But if the cops get your stone back? They’ll call it evidence and keep hold of it for months. Plus you know who has the most criminal connections? Cops! You’ll still be sitting waiting nicely to get it back while some fence is already gloating over it in his basement and Mr Dirty Cop’s set off on a round-the-world cruise with Mrs Dirty Cop. I say dealing with this in private is the way to go, and I’ve got one thing that the rest of your goons ain’t got. Well, on top of the other things I’ve got.’

‘And what’s that?’ he says, sneering a bit, but I think he’s getting hooked all the same.

‘Subtlety. I got on that ship all right and I’d have got off it all right if I’d wanted to. I can talk my way into places that the cops can’t get near – let alone your four stooges here – and sometimes I don’t even need to talk.’ I don’t elaborate. He knows what I’m saying; he’s seen me in that red dress.

He nods. Yeah, this is speaking to him. I can see the cogs turning; he’s beginning to see the advantages of having a broad on the payroll.

‘OK,’ he says at last. ‘Do what you gotta do, then you’re coming back to my place.’ By which he means a joint he owns. I ain’t that desperate for work.

So I sashay back up the gangplank. The purser’s at the top with a couple of brawny sailor men, no one’s allowed on the ship until the police arrive. But he knows who I am, and I flutter my eyelashes a bit and make it clear I’d be real grateful for his help, and he don’t even have to let me on board – just get me a list of passengers.

He makes it clear this is a big favour he’s doing me, then calls out for someone. Whoever it is, name of George, they don’t come running, so he asks one of the bruiser brothers with him to go fetch the list for me instead. It takes a while, but the purser don’t seem too unhappy to have me hanging around. I don’t put him off – hey, you never know when a connection could come in handy. My eyes get busy making promises that I’m never gonna keep.

Just when I’m getting pretty fed up of the winsome act, Sailor One returns with a piece of paper. I fold it and tuck it in my cleavage, and tell everyone how grateful I am. Then I’m outta there.

History lesson. Cleopatra: last Egyptian pharaoh. Had a lot going on with her siblings (married some, murdered some, occasionally did both to the same person). Rumour has it she sneaked in to see Julius Caesar, Rome’s head honcho, rolled up in a carpet (rumour don’t state if anyone had bothered vacuuming it first). Had a fling with Caesar, had a son with Caesar. Caesar got a knife or six in the gut, so she moves on to another Roman swell, name of Mark Antony. Formed a drinking club with Mark Antony (that’s my kinda girl). Big sea battle: Cleo and Mark versus Octavian Caesar. Octavian won. Mark Antony tops himself. Cleopatra does the same – legend has it she had a snake smuggled in and bares her breast until it bites her. Gotta give her marks for style.

I had to look up all this stuff at the public library, almost made me wish I hadn’t demonstrated my pocket pistol to that encyclopaedia salesman who wanted me to take a volume a month at ‘such a good price he was practically giving it away’. If I’d just ponied up for volume 1 (AAR-CYC) I’d have got not only Cleopatra but all of ‘Antony, Mark’, ‘Caesar, Julius’ and even ‘asp’ and ‘carpet’, just in case.

Do I need to know all this to solve the case? Smart money says not. But that library detour means I’m not going to look ignorant in front of Wallace. I’m the gal who has all the facts at my fingertips, no matter the subject. I reckon that’s the kind of ’tec he’s gonna keep hiring.

I head off to the joint Wallace owns, name of the Pink Tiger. It ain’t much gone midday yet, and there’s already a crowd of neanderthals knocking back the hooch as a crooner does his best Bob Hope and Thanks the audience For The Memory, though no one’s stepping up to play Shirley Ross. One of the waitresses plonks a Manhattan down in front of me, while someone else scurries off to tell Wallace I’m here. Finally I’m shown to a little room at the back wherein sits the boss. He gestures me to sit down and pours himself a Cutty Sark, though he don’t bother offering me one. I don’t care about the drink, but didn’t his mamma teach him any manners?

I get out my list and begin to read it through. Sad to say, no one had registered as James T. Burglar, or Mr Dennis Ruby-Thief. Not a single name meant anything to Wallace. Oh well, that would have been too easy. I might even have felt guilty for taking his money. I’d have still taken it, no question, I just would’ve felt guilty afterwards.

‘OK, let’s start from the other end. Who’d know your guy Motson had this ruby?’ I ask. ‘And who’d know he was on this boat? Any names on both lists?’

‘My London agent, Floyd, he’s the one that hired Motson. He’s tight as a clam. Wouldn’t have told a soul.’

‘Was this Floyd the one who picked up the stone? Could someone discover he had it, maybe follow it through till they got to Motson?’

Wallace stays silent, but his eyes tighten. I could see what was going on behind those piggy little peepers. I’d just put my finger on a major and pretty obvious weakness in his system, and he wasn’t going to thank me for making him feel stupid.

He picks up a copy of the London Times – guess that came by sea too – and flicks through the pages, landing on one that’s headed ‘DOES CLEOPATRA’S RUBY CARRY A CURSE?’ Can’t work out what else it says – I can read upside down as well as the next gumshoe, but Wallace’s fat fingers are all over the print as he goes through it line by line. ‘“The winning bidder remained anonymous”’ – he pronounced it like it was Mickey’s little sister Anonny – ‘“but is rumoured to be American. The transaction was completed by Mr A. Floyd, originally of New York State. Mr Floyd declined to speak to our reporter.”’

‘There you go,’ I say, pointlessly. His face is getting redder than my Manhattan. I figure I’d better get out of his way. ‘Why not get on the long distance to your guy Floyd, ask him if he saw anything suspicious, any strangers? It’s, what, late afternoon over there? He should be around.’ Wallace’s face makes it clear he could not care less about disturbing this Floyd’s sleep. ‘Meantime, I’m gonna go chat to a few people,’ I go on. ‘See if any fences have been put on standby, that sort of thing.’ I stand up ready to go, then turn back and pick up the newspaper. ‘Mind if I take this? Get me up to speed, then I’ll do a bit of research of my own.’

He nods, and I leave.

So I head back to the public library again. Libraries aren’t really my bag (creepy places full of silence and shadows), but I’ve been here a heck of a lot lately; I’m guessing pretty soon they’re gonna put my name on the back of a chair, like movie directors get. Reason is, I been reading through the whole ‘hardboiled’ section, Sam Spade and the like – being a classy British dame don’t go down too well in certain company, so as you may have noticed I’ve adopted a much more ‘pulp’ vibe. It mainly involves being extremely grammatically incorrect, for example saying ‘ain’t’ a lot and remembering to put ‘wasn’t’ when you mean ‘weren’t’ and ‘weren’t’ when you mean ‘wasn’t’. I’ve made myself a little lexicon full of words like ‘flimflam’ and ‘yeggman’ and sprinkle them into conversation here and there. The trouble is, it’s absolutely exhausting to keep thinking in that style; sometimes I do slip up and halfway through saying something like, ‘Who you say you was, you goddam fink?’ I’ll add, ‘I hope you don’t mind my mentioning it, but that zoot suit is simply stunning on you.’ Still, if they find that funny I let my Magnum do the talking and they stop laughing real quick.

But back to the library. No ’tec fiction for me this time, I’m here to see what I can dig up. ‘Dig up’ being a pretty appropriate phrase.

You know Tutankhamun, right? The boy king with the fancy gold mask? You remember they dug him up a few years ago, poor kid? Trouble is, it wasn’t just the gold and the goodies that they found. See, there was supposed to be a curse on anyone disturbing the boy king’s last resting place. Lord Carnarvon, the guy who funded the dig, died six weeks later. A few others popped their clogs here and there. Howard Carter, the one who broke the seals? He died just last month. And OK, that’s, what, 17 years later, which is a pretty good margin for a curse, but still. Dead is dead.

For a while, the world went crazy for all things Egypt. The lure of gold and maybe getting your name in the history books made every Tom, Dick and Ptolemy want to head out there with a spade, curse or no curse. But the frenzy faded, like frenzies always do, and Egyptology was eventually overtaken by exciting new crazes like jazz music, yo-yos and Stalinism.

But some people didn’t move on. For some people, Egyptology remained not only their job, but in a lot of ways, their life.

Now, when I was reading all that stuff about Cleo earlier, what it didn’t tell me was the location of her tomb. The reason for that? No one knows where it is!

And that’s where my guy Wallace comes in. Have a look at what the paper says.

DOES CLEOPATRA’S RUBY CARRY A CURSE?



Over the last few decades all the world has thrilled to tales of exotic Egypt, with its incredible pyramids and mysterious mummies. The sad death in March of Mr Howard Carter, the distinguished archaeologist who discovered the tomb of pharaoh Tut-Ankh-Amun, has brought the subject back into the public’s eye.

But what the world has not known until now is that another discovery may have been made that would put even the boy king’s tomb to shame. It has been revealed that some years ago an expedition led by Mr Geo. Badger of Oxford may have come across the tomb of the most famous lady pharaoh of all, Queen Cleopatra.

Many tales have been told of the curse that smote down all those who disturbed the boy king’s grave. Sadly, it seems that a similar curse may have struck the finders of Cleopatra’s last resting place.

This is the story, as told to our reporter:

In the Year of Our Lord 1934, Mr Geo. Badger led an excavation in Egypt, assisted by Mr Edwin Wivenhoe of the Royal Society, alongside other helpers and native workers. At one point it is believed that Mr Badger went missing, returning to his colleagues some time later to their great relief, claiming he had made a most amazing discovery. He led a party back through the desert and they helped him uncover the entrance to a tomb in which lay an undisturbed sarcophagus. Hieroglyphs indicated that this held the remains of a most important person, and what is more, it was a woman of royal blood. Among the grave goods was found a ruby of great size, which Mr Badger referred to as ‘the Eye of Horus’. He plucked this jewel from its setting, and no sooner had he done so than there came a cry from the entrance. The excavation had caused a rock fall. All made it out with no more than minor injuries, but the entrance to the tomb had been rendered impassable.

The party returned to camp to treat wounds and fetch tools that would enable them to enter the tomb once more. But the rock fall was not the only misfortune to befall the expedition. That very night, men began to sicken. The native workers got restless, believing in their primitive way that a curse had been brought upon them, and blamed Badger for removing the Queen’s jewel. They wished to return the ruby to the tomb to obviate further harm. Mr Badger laughed at their superstition, describing himself as a man of science.

Unhappily, the curse, if such there was, fell then on Badger himself, and his science could not save him. He began to sicken and, believing he had little time left in this world, entrusted the ruby – together with a letter of farewell to his wife – to his friend Mr Wivenhoe.

All this we know from the letter itself. A little more is known from what Wivenhoe confessed to fellow passengers on his difficult journey back to England, although it is notable that he did not mention to any of these fellows that he had in his possession the priceless ruby. He said merely that he had had to flee Egypt, and was devastated that he was unable to repatriate the body of his colleague and friend, who had died in his arms. He had given some coins to a native he believed trustworthy, hoping that a burial could be arranged, but he was warned to flee as bad feelings increased. This turned into a full uprising among the native workers that saw the rest of the party slain. Wivenhoe himself barely escaped with his life.

Sad to relate, the curse of the ruby followed the archaeologist across the sea. On his return to England, Mr Wivenhoe went immediately to deliver the terrible news, along with the parcel, to Mrs Badger. He had almost reached his destination when he was hit by a car and killed instantly. However the package, being addressed, found its way to the unhappy widow, and enquiries made by the police unearthed the information above regarding her husband’s death in Egypt. What was not unearthed at this time was information relating to the full contents of Wivenhoe’s parcel, which did not come to light until the death of the widow in January of this year.

Following the death of Badger, his family found itself in somewhat straitened circumstances. It seems the son of the family wished to sell the ruby, but his mother jealously guarded the jewel, and who can blame her? For it was bequeathed to her with her husband’s dying breath. Those who know the family speak of gambling debts that could not be repaid, which led to an estrangement between mother and son. Upon Mrs Badger’s death, all she possessed, including the ruby, was bequeathed to the child that had stood by her through the last few years of poverty, her daughter – who by some strange quirk of fate Mr and Mrs Badger had, some 21 years earlier, named Ruby.

Young Miss Badger had no such sentimental attachment to the jewel; indeed, while not going so far as to acknowledge the curse, she nevertheless wished rid of the gem with all haste. She approached the world-famous auctioneers Bothesy’s of London and, with Badger’s final letter establishing its provenance, it was at this point that the existence of the ruby and its tragic history became known to the world.

The Egyptian government was approached, and finally agreed that the ruby could be sold, on condition that half the proceeds went to itself. This was a great relief to Miss Badger, who had endured a great deal of worry and grief, and in one of her rare interviews spoke of her desire to get away from the family home and all its associations as soon as the sale had been made.

Three days ago, the auction took place at Bothesy’s. Many well-known names were there, including noted collector Mr Calvin Cuttling, and Mrs Peterson-Lee of Esher, who will be familiar to many from the pages of society magazines. The winning bidder remained anonymous, but is rumoured to be American. The transaction was completed by Mr A. Floyd, originally of New York State. Mr Floyd declined to speak to our reporter; however, it may be the case that the ruby is even now carrying its curse away from our shores. Our transatlantic cousins may need to take care.



So it’s pretty darn clear that out of everyone who went into Cleopatra’s tomb that day, not a one of them made it home again. Then Wivenhoe gets wiped out on his way back – the son gets chucked out – the widow dies – the daughter suffers. Now Marvin Motson, courier – dead.

Coincidence – or curse?

And so now I’m wondering, do I really want to find this ruby? Sure, I’ve got bills to pay. But dead men don’t need to pay no rent – and dead women don’t either.

And you’re going to rot in hell for what you did—
